# Activity 3.1 - Regular languages

Reference for math symbols:
https://www.overleaf.com/learn/latex/List_of_Greek_letters_and_math_symbols

## Names:
- Ricardo Alfredo Calvo - A01028889

## Exercises:

1. Give a recursive definition of the set of strings over $\Sigma = \{a, b\}$ that have at least one $a$, and where any $b$ must be followed by an $a$.
For example: $a$, $aaaaa$ and $aabaaaba$ belong to the set, but $bab$, $ababba$ no not belong in the set

    SOLUTION:

    Basis: $a \in \Sigma$

    Recursive Step: if $u \in \Sigma$ then $ua, uba$

    Closure: A string $u \in \Sigma$ only if it can be obtained from the basis following a finite set of applications of the recursive step.

0. Let $X = \{aa, bb\}$ and $Y = \{\lambda, b, ab\}$.

    a. List the strings in set $XY$

    #|string|#|string|#|string
    -|------|-|------|-|------
    1|aa   |2|aab   |3|aaab
    4|bb   |5|bbb   |6|bbab

    b. How many strings of length 6 are there in $X^*$?

    $R= 8$ strings

    c. List the strings in set $Y^*$ of length three or less

    #|string|#|string|#|string
    -|------|-|------|-|------
    1|$\lambda$|2|b    |3|ab
    4|bab   |5|abb    |6|bb
    7|bbb

    d. List the strings in set $X^* Y^*$ of length four or less

    #|string|#|string|#|string
    -|------|-|------|-|------
    1|aa    |2|bb    |3|aabb
    4|bbaa  |5|b     |6|ab
    7|bab   |8|abb   |9|bbb
    10|bbbb  |11|abab  |12|bbab
    13|abbb |14|babb |15|aaaa


0. Give a recursive definition of the set $\{ b^ia^j | 0 ≤ i ≤ j ≤ 2i\}$
For example: $ba$, $bbaaa$ and $bbaaaa$ belong to this set.

    SOLUTION:

    Basis: $i = 0$
    
    Recursive Step: if $u \in L$ then $bua, buaa \in L$

    Closure: A string $u \in L$ only if it can be obtained from the basis following a finite set of applications of the recursive step.


0. Let $L$ be the set of strings over $\{a, b\}$ generated by the recursive
   definition

    I. Basis: $b \in L$

    II. Recursive Step: If $u \in L$ then $ub \in L$, $uab \in L$, $uba \in
    L$ and $bua \in L$

    III. Closure: A string $u \in L$ only if it can be obtained from the
    basis using a finite number of applications of the recursive step.

    Answer the following questions:

    a. List the elements in the sets $L_0, L_1, L_2$

    $L_0={"b"}$

    $L_1={"bb", "bab", "bba"}$
   
    $L_2={bbb,bbab,bbba,babb,babab,babba,bbaba
    ,bbab,bbaab,bbaba,bbbab,bbbaa}$

    b. Is the string $bbaaba$ in $L$? If so, trace how it is produced.
    If not, explain why not.
        
    - Yes, because using the third rule $uba$ we can start our string with $"ba"$, then using the fourth rule $bua$; we get $"bbaa"$ and finally using the third rule again; we get $"bbaaba"$


    c. Is the string $bbbaabb$ in $L$? If so, trace how it is produced.
    If not, explain why not

    - Yes, because starting with the first rule we got $b$, then using the fourth rule twice; we got $bba$ and then $bbbaa$, and finally using the first rule twice; we got $bbbaab$ and then $bbbaabb$

0. Prove, using induction on the length of a string, that $(w^R)^R = w$ for all
   string $w \in \Sigma$

    SOLUTION:

    I. Basis: $length(w) = 0$, then $(w^R)^R = w$

    II. Inductive Hypotesis: Assume that $(w^R)^R = w$ for all strings $w$ of length $n$.

    III. Inductive Step: Demonstrate that the same holds for strings of length $n+1$:

    If $x$ has length $n+1$, then $x = wa$

    $(x^R)^R$
    $= ((wa)^R)^R$ 

    $(aw^R)^R$

    Renombramos $w^R$ 

    $z = w^R$

    $(az)^R$

    $z^Ra$
    
    Sustituimos $z$ con su nombre original
    
    $(w^R)^Ra$
